# VPS4A

This directory contains the markdowns and scripts used to generate figures and for the analysis related to the VPS4A target discovery and advancement. The Rmds should be executable within the repo. Plots generated by the markdown are saved in the `plots` directory, under a subdirectory with the same name as the script that was run to generate it.

The following taiga directory is associated with the scripts in this directory: <a href="https://cds.team/taiga/folder/b1a74ec9b9df46338ce5bec1776acbec`">VPS4</a>

It has been created by guillaume kugener and reuploaded as a single git repository.

## associated_deps_with_vps4a.Rmd

This markdown is an analysis looking at dependencies associated with VPS4A dependency. It also includes plots and gene lists looking at dependencies associated with combined VPS4A + VPS4B expression (computed as log2(VPS4A TPM + VPS4B TPM + 1)) and VPS4A + VPS4B copy number (computed as log2(VPS4A CN + VPS4B CN + 1)).

## cn_in_tcga.Rmd

This markdown file contains analysis and figure generation snippets looking at VPS4A and VPS4B in the TCGA. Most of the figures generated are centered around the copy number profile of VPS4A and VPS4B in TCGA. There are also figures looking at the distribution of the gene expression and copy number correlation in TCGA and expression vs. CN plots in TCGA for VPS4A and VPS4B. 

The TCGA data used in these plots comes from the following taiga links:

* <a href="https://cds.team/taiga/dataset/tcga-copy-number-profiles-0f8f/1">CN</a>
* <a href="https://cds.team/taiga/dataset/rnaseq-7cdc/1">Expression</a>

## collateral_loss.Rmd

This markdown file contains the code snippets used to generate the collateral loss feature that is given to Mike Burger for the collateral loss analysis for the VPS4A manuscript. Running this markdown will save the co-loss feature to the `data/collateral_loss` directory in this folder. Different versions of this file that were generated can be found <a href="https://cds.team/taiga/dataset/co-loss-feature-matrix-beb8/3.">here on taiga</a>.

The list of tumor supressor genes used in this analysis can be found <a href="https://cds.team/taiga/dataset/oncokb-annotations-2b59/2">here on taiga</a>.

## dependency_cn_expr_correlation_plots.Rmd

Generates correlation plots for VPS4A and VPS4B across various CCLE omics. Plots include correlations between VPS4A dependency in Achilles CRISPR and RNAi and VPS4B copy number, VPS4A/B expression vs. VPS4A/B copy number, and a distribution of the correlation of expression and copy number in a sample of genes and VPS4A/B in CCLE.

## smad4_vps4a_co_loss.Rmd

This markdown script looks at the relationship between SMAD4 and VPS4B copy number in CCLE amd TCGA. It contains code to generate the segmented figures on chr18 to highlight the break points, including highlights of where SMAD4 and VPS4B fall.

## vps4a_dependency_enrichment_plots.Rmd

Generates plots highlighting the VPS4A dependency lineage enrichment. 

## vps4_in_st_jude

Contains some QC on the St Jude copy number data and then generates plots to visualize VPS4B copy number in these samples

Things to know about St Jude with relation to VPS4 analysis

* Comparisons between tecnologies (WES vs. WGS) look very good - very consistent calls between the two
* We need to find a way to collapse samples to show these data. A good way to do it would be to remove germline and xenograft sample. If there are still overlapping samples remaining, use the 'Diagnosis' sample type. If having to choose between WES vs. WGS, it does not make a huge difference (the technologies are super similar).


Created by [Guillaume Kugener](https://www.linkedin.com/in/guillaume-kugener-82225b61/)
